# Jekyll Notes
-------------

## Getting Started

To create a new jekyll site at path
> jekyll new <PATH>

To create a new jekyll site in the current directory that you are in
> jekyll new .

Pass the --force option if the current directory is not empty

By default, the Jekyll site is installed with Minima theme. The folder structure of the theme is hidden from you,
To create Jekyll site without any theme use,
> jekyll new myblog --blank

For any help 
> jekyll new --help

## Build

To generate current folder into ./site
> jekyll build

To generate current folder into <destination>
> jekyll build --destination <destination>

To generate <source> folder into <destination>
> jekyll build --source <source> --destination <destination>

To generate current folder into ./site and watch for changes, and regenerate automatically
> jekyll build --watch

### NOTE
Desitnation folders are cleaned, by default, when the site is built. Files not created by your site will also be cleaned. To keep the files that you have created in <destination>, you need to specify such files in <keep_files> configuration directive.

## Serve

To start the local built in development server at http://localhost:4000/.
Auto-regeneration is enabled by default. Use --no-watch to disable.
> jekyll serve

To serve from <destination>
> jekyll serve --destination <destination>

## Directory Structure

Jekyll sites directory structure -  From [Jekyll Documentation](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/structure/)

[Screenshot](https://screenshots.firefox.com/Hw16R9QKpzUyqkko/jekyllrb.com)

## Global Configuration

Some useful options in _config.yml file
source - to set the source
destination - to set the destination
exclude - to exclude the files from conversion. Exclusions are relative to the source directory
include - to include the files in conversion.
keep_files - to keep the files that are not generated by jekyll but are generated by your build tools. E.g can be source-maps.
defaults - default front-matter for your pages. scope/values pairs.

## Front Matter
YAML front matter.
Valid YAML set between triple-dashed lines

---
layout: post
title: Blogging like a hacker
---

### Predefined Global variables for YAML

layout - layout file to use. Layout files must be placed under _layouts directory.
permalink - URLs for your pages. Overrides the default url.
published - set to false if you don't want specify post to show up when site is generated.


## The Posts Folder

_posts folder is where your blog posts live. Generally are Markdown or HTML. All posts must have YAML Front Matter.


### Creating new post file

The naming convertion should be followed while creating new post files
> YEAR-MONTH-DAY-title.MARKUP

where `YEAR` is 4 digit number, `MONTH` and `DAY` are both two digit numbers, and `MARKUP` is the file extension

e.g. 2017-12-03-Learning-Jekyll.md
e.g. 2017-12-02-Typeahead-demo.md

### Including images and resources

Put your images, files or others resources into `/assets/` folder and then link using site's root as the path for the asset.

### Displaying posts categories or tags

How to make a template to display posts specific to a category or tag?

1. Create a template in _layouts as category.pug

---
layout: page
---

|{% for post in site.categories[page.category] %}
a(href='{{ post.url | absolute_url }}') {{ post.title }}
|{% endfor %}

2. In your root directory of Jekyll install, create a directory called category and create templates for each of your category/tag

Include at least following YAML Front matter in your templates:
---
layout: category
title: Categories
category: categories
---

3. The listing pages will be accessible at {baseUrl}/category/categories.html


